# Proximal Core

This repository serves as an installable library, offering shared functionality to common processes across other Proximal tools. In addition to globalizing utility scripts, this library will also serve as a direct line to the database. This means that in many cases a repository needs only to invoke `core` - not the API - to retrieve data. This cuts down on networking overhead as well as reducing potential points of failure in a workflow.

## Installation in Other Proximal Services
To install the `core` library in other repositories, run the following commands:

```bash
mise run core   # installs from AWS CodeArtifact Package Index
mise run e_core #  installs in editable mode
```

There is currently a bug in uv which doesn't allow multiple indeces.  You will have to edit the index in pyproject.toml to select the correct core location (editable or package index).


## Releasing a New Version
When altering this codebase, you must update the version prior to merging changes into `main`. The deployment will fail if changes are merged without updating the version (see Poe commands below).

To run the `core` library on its own, you'll need a virtual environment which you can create using

```bash
uv venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
uv sync
```

### Manually deploying to AWS code artifact

```bash
# Get Auth Token
AWS_CODEARTIFACT_TOKEN=$(aws codeartifact get-authorization-token \
  --domain proximal-code-artifact-domain \
  --region us-east-2 \
  --query authorizationToken \
  --output text)

# Build and Publish
uv version --bump alpha
uv build
uv publish \
  --index proximal-package-index \
  --username aws \
  --password "$AWS_CODEARTIFACT_TOKEN"

```

# Mise

## Overview

This library uses [mise](https://mise.jdx.dev/), a polyglot task runner that integrates with `.mise.toml` to condense workflows into a single command. Reusable, version-controlled tasks are defined in `.mise.toml`.
Tasks are invoked as

```bash
mise run <task>
```

## Available Tasks

| Task           | Description                                                                                                                              |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `types`        | Runs `mypy` type checking using the configured settings.                                                                                 |
| `bump {level}` | Bumps the version of `core`. `level` can be "patch", "major", or "minor". Defaults to "patch".                                           |
| `db {message}` | Creates a new Alembic migration with your custom message and runs Ruff for lint checks. Example: mise run db "Add new column to device table" |

# Alembic Migrations

## Workflow

1. Open a new branch. Alembic migrations should be contained to their own branches and merged as soon as possible to keep the database in sync with the `main` branch of this repository.
1. Update [models](src/core/models.py) with desired changes to database tables. These changes should affect EITHER the `operational` schema or the `project` schemas, not both.
1. Run `mise run db {message}` to generate an Alembic migration autorevision. The revision file will be placed in the [versions](_alembic_migrations/versions/) folder. This step does not impact the live database.
1. Clean and double-check the autogenerated revision file:
   1. Confirm that Alembic is up-to-date with the current revision of the database. The `down_revision` variable of your autogenerated file should be exactly the same as the data in the `tsdb.public.alembic_version` table of the database. If these are not aligned, someone has made a revision without pushing the changes to the database.
   1. If the changes are made to `operational` tables, remove the `@for_each_project_schema` decorator and the `schema: str` argument from both `upgrade` and `downgrade` functions.
   1. If the changes are made to `project` tables, change all instances of `schema="project_default"` to `schema=schema`. This allows the script to iterate through each project schema and apply the changes unilaterally.
   1. Ensure in either case that only the desired changes are being applied. Remove any changes unrelated to your intended changes to the models.
1. Once the revision file has been cleaned, save it.
1. Note: at any point before this, you are free to delete your revision and revert changes to the model with no impact to the live database.
1. Open a PR for your branch.
1. In the reviewal process, the reviewer will run the migration and merge the PR.

# Integrations

## Use

The `core` library is integrated as a module with various other Proximal libraries. To access `core` functions in these libraries, use module notation:<br>

```python
import core
core.crud.operational.projects.get_projects(db=db, project_ids=project_ids, [...])
```

An appropriate database Session is required to access data from any tables. Use the following function to create a database Session object, which can then be passed to data-accessing `core` functions:

```python
import core
db = core.dependencies.get_db_session()
project_db = core.dependencies.get_project_db_session(project_name_short = project_name_short)
```

### Return Types

`core` utilizes two typical return types: `ModelList` and `ModelItem`. The constructors for these types can be found in [models.py](/src/core/models.py). A `core` function will typically return one of these two types of objects. When these objects are called, they will return either a list of models or a single model, as appropriate. They also have the `.dataframe` property, to allow ease of use for flexible application.

```python
import core
db = core.dependencies.get_db_session()
projects = core.crud.operational.projects.get_projects(db)
print(projects)
== <core.models.ModelList at 0x10cb94ad0> ==

print(projects())
== [<core.models.Project at 0x10f8eb7a0>, ==
== <core.models.Project at 0x10f8eb7d0>,  ==
== ...                                    ==
== <core.models.Project at 0x10f8eb800>,  ==
== <core.models.Project at 0x10f8eb830>]  ==

projects.dataframe
```

|     | project_id | project_type_id | name_short      | name_long       | ... |
| --- | ---------- | --------------- | --------------- | --------------- | --- |
| 0   | 123abc     | 0               | golden_fields   | Golden Fields   | ... |
| 1   | qwerty     | 1               | energy_town     | Energy Town     | ... |
| ... | ...        | ...             | ...             | ...             | ... |
| 19  | f5e6r4     | 0               | solar_sanctuary | Solar Sanctuary | ... |
| 20  | asdfgh     | 0               | sun_valley      | Sun Valley      | ... |

## Development

When adding functionality to `core`, ensure that all new files and folders are added to relevant `__init__.py` files. Otherwise, they will not be accessible via the module notation.
